Hello! My name is Anton. This is my presentation and I will tell you about such technology as typescript. 
Let's first define what typescript is, why you need it, and when you should use it. TypeScript is statically typed JavaScript that is mainly used for building complex and large applications. It is also has codename "Javascript That Scales". Written on the official website.
Why TypeScript is needed and when to use it. It is worth plunging into history here. JavaScript has evolved significantly over the years. Now it is not just a scripting language, but a full-fledged language that serves to create client, server, mobile and desktop applications. JavaScript was not originally conceived as a language for building large, complex web applications. It was originally designed with dynamic typing. This means that one variable of one type can be assigned to another type. If the language supports static typing, it means that the quality of the code increases, the understanding of the code increases, this code is easier to maintain and it is easier to catch errors during the development phase. TypeScript is needed only at the development stage, it takes the JavaScript core and overlays new abstractions on top of it, and which at the development stage allows you to catch a large number of problems, write more structured and beautiful code.
What are the advantages of typescript if you go through the list? TypeScript can catch errors at design time. And when you write the code, you can immediately understand that you have done something wrong here, some data is missing and you can immediately fix it. TypeScript allows you to write more complex applications and do it more comfortably. Refactoring the code also becomes easier, because you have types and therefore you can immediately understand what could go wrong. It's much easier to work in development teams because each developer has their own style of coding, but when there is static typing it becomes easier to develop. Very rich documentation which can be found on the official site.
What are the disadvantages of TypeScript? This is an extra layer that should be implemented at the development stage, but often it pays for itself.
Let's take a look at the basic features of typescript. How do I install typescript in our project? We just need to write a command such as npm install –g typescript . That is, we need it globally, for this we need any terminal.
What are the basic types in typescript? This is a boolean type for values true or false. The next type is number for numeric values. There is also a string type for string values. There are also types such as null, undefined, symbol and object.
Let's take a look at some examples of basic types using typescript. How do we do it? We need to write a variable, put a colon and indicate the type that we want to use. For example, here is a numeric value, here is a string, here is a boolean type, and here is an object. After that, if we try to change the value to a different type, then we can catch errors.
Besides the base types, typescript has its own additional types such as array, tuple, any, void, never, and enum. We will look at how each of them is used in examples that will be in the next slides.
Arrays are some kind of data structure that contains other data. How to make, for example, that an array consists of strings or numbers? We create a variable, enter the numbers, put a colon after the variable, indicate the type number, but after that we indicate that it is an array. However, arrays have another form of type specification. There is a global class array and in parentheses we indicate what the array consists of. Such notation is called generic types.
In typescript, there is such a data type as tuple. Its idea is that it is an array of different data types. We create a variable called contact. We indicate the values in the array. Then we put a colon, indicate that this is an array, and then indicate the data types.	
The next data type is any. Used when we can assign values of different data types to a variable. We create a variable named variable, set a numeric value, then after the colon we indicate the type any. After that we can freely assign values of other types to the variable.
Next, we will consider such a type as void. To do this, we will create a function called message, where in the body of the function we write console.log and the message hello typescript is displayed inside it. This function does not return anything to us. This means that after defining the function, we specify a colon and write void.
Then there is another interesting type called never. When do we need to specify this type? In two cases. When a function returns us an error and never finishes executing, or when it constantly does something.  Let's say we create a throwError function. Specify message of the string type in the parameters. Further in the body of the function we will throw some error, in this case we can use never. We also have another case. We have an infinite function that has a while cycle on a true condition. That is, the cycle will go on constantly, this function will never end.
Great, we've covered the basic features of the typescript language. In conclusion, I would like to say that it is up to you to decide whether to use this language or not. Thanks for attention!